# Minimum Routing Cost
This challenge is a variation of the vehicle routing problem.
A number of files are contained in the `trainingProblems` folder, where each file contains a number of routes, one per line, containing a vehicle id, starting point, and ending point.
The goal is to calculate, for all provided , routes, the cheapest way to assign 1 or more drivers to these routes, where the total cost is given by the equation
```
total cost = 500 * drivers + total distance traveled
```
with the added constraint, that each driver cannot drive more than a total 12 hours of drive time, or 12 * 60 units of distance (in this implementation one unit of distance is equal to one unit of time).
## Algorithmic Discussion
In this implementation, I chose to use a greedy algorithm approach, and the way this approach is implemented is fairly straightforward. 

I initialize a driver, that has a distance equal to 0, and contains an empty list of routes. For every route, I validate that it has not been previously visited, and that the distance from the drivers current location to the starting point plus the total distance of the route plus the distance from the end of the route to the point of origin at (0, 0) is less than the maximum allowable time of 720. 

If these conditions are true, I check whether the distance from where the driver is currently located to the start of the route is less than the minimum distance to the start of all prior routes evaluated. If it is less than the minimum distance, I update the minimum distance. 

When all routes are done being considered, I evaluate if the driver was able to find a route. If he was, I update the distance he traveled, which is equal to the distance from his prior endpoint to the start of the new route, plus the length of the route, and I add the route id to his list of routes, which is then used as the next point of origin when looking for additional routes for the same driver. If he wasn't able to find a route, I create a new driver.

This approach is looking for the local minimum time to the next route. The goal is minimizing the time between the previous routes end, and the next routes start. 

The benefit of this approach is it gives a relatively good approximation of best option for each driver, while the complexity is O(drivers * routes)

## Results
The results are generated by the python script `evaluateShared.py`
for the provided training problems, mean cost and mean runtime are displayed below
```
mean cost: 47963.81284400136
mean run time: 6.832027435302734ms
```

## Running against training problems
in order to calculate the average cost and runtime against the provided training data the utility script `buildAndTest.sh` has been provided for ease of use.

In order to build and test, first change the permissions of the shell script `buildAndTest.sh`. Paste the command below into a terminal in the project directory.

```
chmod +rx buildAndTest.sh
```
After permissions are updated, paste the command
```
./buildAndTest.sh
```
into the same terminal.
This will generate an output file on the host machine, `minimum-cost-routing-path`, that is then run against all tests in the `trainingProblems` folder using the `evaluateShared.py` python script.

## Testing
The testing functions are included in the file `main_test.go` and can be run with the command
```
go test -v 
```
## Limitations of existing approach and Enhancements

A few limitations exist with the existing algorithm. First, the locally optimal approach is an approximation, for each driver, and doesn't optimize for all drivers. I could further enhance the implementation by trying to reassign routes based on a heuristic like mean time between routes for all drivers, or a similar metric.

Additionally, I would like to have added additional unit tests, for incorrect input formats. Unit test coverage for the project is fairly low, and this would help make a more robust implementation.